Another company, a lucky one for not all the companies had vodka,
crowded round a pockmarked, broad-shouldered sergeant major who, tilting
a keg, filled one after another the canteen lids held out to him. The
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with reverential faces,
emptied them, rolling the vodka in their mouths, and walked away from
the sergeant major with brightened expressions, licking their lips and
wiping them on the sleeves of their greatcoats. All their faces were
as serene as if all this were happening at home awaiting peaceful
encampment, and not within sight of the enemy before an action in
which at least half of them would be left on the field. After passing a
chasseur regiment and in the lines of the Kiev grenadiersfine fellows
busy with similar peaceful affairsnear the shelter of the regimental
commander, higher than and different from the others, Prince Andrew came
out in front of a platoon of grenadiers before whom lay a naked man. Two
soldiers held him while two others were flourishing their switches and
striking him regularly on his bare back. The man shrieked unnaturally.
A stout major was pacing up and down the line, and regardless of the
screams kept repeating:

Its a shame for a soldier to steal; a soldier must be honest,
honorable, and brave, but if he robs his fellows there is no honor in
him, hes a scoundrel. Go on! Go on!

So the swishing sound of the strokes, and the desperate but unnatural
screams, continued.

Go on, go on! said the major.

A young officer with a bewildered and pained expression on his face
stepped away from the man and looked round inquiringly at the adjutant
as he rode by.

Prince Andrew, having reached the front line, rode along it. Our front
line and that of the enemy were far apart on the right and left flanks,
but in the center where the men with a flag of truce had passed that
morning, the lines were so near together that the men could see one
anothers faces and speak to one another. Besides the soldiers who
formed the picket line on either side, there were many curious onlookers
who, jesting and laughing, stared at their strange foreign enemies.

Since early morningdespite an injunction not to approach the picket
linethe officers had been unable to keep sight-seers away. The
soldiers forming the picket line, like showmen exhibiting a curiosity,
no longer looked at the French but paid attention to the sight-seers and
grew weary waiting to be relieved. Prince Andrew halted to have a look
at the French.

Look! Look there! one soldier was saying to another, pointing to a
Russian musketeer who had gone up to the picket line with an officer and
was rapidly and excitedly talking to a French grenadier. Hark to him
jabbering! Fine, isnt it? Its all the Frenchy can do to keep up
with him. There now, Sdorov!

Wait a bit and listen. Its fine! answered Sdorov, who was
considered an adept at French.

The soldier to whom the laughers referred was Dlokhov. Prince Andrew
recognized him and stopped to listen to what he was saying. Dlokhov
had come from the left flank where their regiment was stationed, with
his captain.

Now then, go on, go on! incited the officer, bending forward and
trying not to lose a word of the speech which was incomprehensible to
him. More, please: more! Whats he saying?

Dlokhov did not answer the captain; he had been drawn into a hot
dispute with the French grenadier. They were naturally talking about the
campaign. The Frenchman, confusing the Austrians with the Russians, was
trying to prove that the Russians had surrendered and had fled all
the way from Ulm, while Dlokhov maintained that the Russians had not
surrendered but had beaten the French.

We have orders to drive you off here, and we shall drive you off,
said Dlokhov.

Only take care you and your Cossacks are not all captured! said
the French grenadier.

The French onlookers and listeners laughed.

Well make you dance as we did under Suvrov..., * said
Dlokhov.

    * On vous fera danser.


Qu est-ce quil chante? * asked a Frenchman.

    * Whats he singing about?


Its ancient history, said another, guessing that it referred to
a former war. The Emperor will teach your Suvara as he has taught the
others...

Bonaparte... began Dlokhov, but the Frenchman interrupted him.

Not Bonaparte. He is the Emperor! Sacr nom...! cried he angrily.

The devil skin your Emperor.

And Dlokhov swore at him in coarse soldiers Russian and shouldering
his musket walked away.

Let us go, Ivn Lukch, he said to the captain.

Ah, thats the way to talk French, said the picket soldiers.
Now, Sdorov, you have a try!

Sdorov, turning to the French, winked, and began to jabber meaningless
sounds very fast: Kari, mala, tafa, safi, muter, Kask, he said,
trying to give an expressive intonation to his voice.

Ho! ho! ho! Ha! ha! ha! ha! Ouh! ouh! came peals of such healthy
and good-humored laughter from the soldiers that it infected the French
course of events in the forthcoming action in broad outline. He
involuntarily, so much so that the only thing left to do seemed to be
to unload the muskets, explode the ammunition, and all return home as
quickly as possible.

But the guns remained loaded, the loopholes in blockhouses and
entrenchments looked out just as menacingly, and the unlimbered cannon
confronted one another as before.





CHAPTER XVI

Having ridden round the whole line from right flank to left, Prince
Andrew made his way up to the battery from which the staff officer had
told him the whole field could be seen. Here he dismounted, and stopped
beside the farthest of the four unlimbered cannon. Before the guns an
artillery sentry was pacing up and down; he stood at attention when the
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with reverential faces,
officer arrived, but at a sign resumed his measured, monotonous pacing.
Behind the guns were their limbers and still farther back picket ropes
and artillerymens bonfires. To the left, not far from the farthest
cannon, was a small, newly constructed wattle shed from which came the
sound of officers voices in eager conversation.

It was true that a view over nearly the whole Russian position and the
greater part of the enemys opened out from this battery. Just facing
it, on the crest of the opposite hill, the village of Schn Grabern
could be seen, and in three places to left and right the French troops
amid the smoke of their campfires, the greater part of whom were
evidently in the village itself and behind the hill. To the left from
that village, amid the smoke, was something resembling a battery, but it
was impossible to see it clearly with the naked eye. Our right flank was
posted on a rather steep incline which dominated the French position.
Our infantry were stationed there, and at the farthest point the
dragoons. In the center, where Tshins battery stood and from which
Prince Andrew was surveying the position, was the easiest and most
direct descent and ascent to the brook separating us from Schn
Grabern. On the left our troops were close to a copse, in which smoked
the bonfires of our infantry who were felling wood. The French line was
wider than ours, and it was plain that they could easily outflank us
on both sides. Behind our position was a steep and deep dip, making it
difficult for artillery and cavalry to retire. Prince Andrew took
out his notebook and, leaning on the cannon, sketched a plan of the
position. He made some notes on two points, intending to mention them to
Bagratin. His idea was, first, to concentrate all the artillery in the
center, and secondly, to withdraw the cavalry to the other side of the
dip. Prince Andrew, being always near the commander in chief, closely
following the mass movements and general orders, and constantly studying
historical accounts of battles, involuntarily pictured to himself the
course of events in the forthcoming action in broad outline. He
imagined only important possibilities: If the enemy attacks the right
flank, he said to himself, the Kiev grenadiers and the Podlsk
chasseurs must hold their position till reserves from the center
come up. In that case the dragoons could successfully make a flank
counterattack. If they attack our center we, having the center battery
on this high ground, shall withdraw the left flank under its cover, and
retreat to the dip by echelons. So he reasoned.... All the time
he had been beside the gun, he had heard the voices of the officers
distinctly, but as often happens had not understood a word of what they
were saying. Suddenly, however, he was struck by a voice coming from the
shed, and its tone was so sincere that he could not but listen.

No, friend, said a pleasant and, as it seemed to Prince Andrew, a
familiar voice, what I say is that if it were possible to know
what is beyond death, none of us would be afraid of it. Thats so,
friend.

Another, a younger voice, interrupted him: Afraid or not, you cant
escape it anyhow.

All the same, one is afraid! Oh, you clever people, said a third
manly voice interrupting them both. Of course you artillery men are
very wise, because you can take everything along with youvodka and
snacks.

And the owner of the manly voice, evidently an infantry officer,
laughed.
 Poe was connected at various times and in various capacities with the Southern Literary Messenger in Richmond, Va.; Grahams Magazine and the Gentlemans Magazine in Philadelphia; the Evening Mirror, the Broadway Journal, and Godeys Ladys Book in New York. Everywhere Poes life was one of unremitting toil. No tales and poems were ever produced at a greater cost of brain and spirit.

Poes initial salary with the Southern Literary Messenger, to which he contributed the first drafts of a number of his best-known tales, was $10 a week! Two years later his salary was but $600 a year. Even in 1844, when his literary reputation was established securely, he wrote to a friend expressing his pleasure because a magazine to which he was to contribute had agreed to pay him $20 monthly for two pages of criticism.
could be seen, and in three places to left and right the French troops
